So, I am back at uh Whoops, that's too
much.
I'm back in the warehouse.
That should work.
Hey, Jess.
How's it going?
I thought I was going to be able to
stream uh all day today, but
there's some new equipment there.
Couple thousand pounds of it that needed
to be put together.
So, only have time for a short little
evening stream today, but uh I should be
able to be putting in a good number of
streaming hours over the next month or
so.
There's a lot a lot of stuff I have
planned.
So, I have a few collaborations to work
on. I can do that on stream. I have a
few private clients that I can't do this
work for on stream, but not that that
much work of that.
And
we have some really cool research to
start on.
Some really cool research to start on.
But I think I'll leave the uh the
initial results for that for tomorrow
because today we have an environment to
mess around with just for a couple
hours,
seven. The goal is going to be that um
I will be streaming
probably around 10:30 a.m. Eastern
typically and then again in the evening
around 6:30 or 7.
And for this research block, the muscle
to move it, I actually lost a ton of
weight with the last training block. I
lost like 18 pounds.
But I kept all the strength. So now the
muscle's going back on. And uh I got a
fair amount of equipment to help with
that
We really just want to get a a baseline
for this environment because this is
going to be used in some stuff around
Puffer pretty soon
and there's been a lot of stuff broken
with it. So that's the plan for tonight.
And then generally the plan is to do
large scale science.
Um there's a project in mind.
I'll talk about it more in the morning
tomorrow on stream.
The goal is going to be a 100,000 plus
experiments and they're going to aggre
be aggregated in a nice interactive way
as that as far as I'm aware has never
been done in RL
and to literally be able to play with
them definitely locally but perhaps even
in your browser if I can figure it
This is not on the Pupper site. So, this
is third party.
You know, we collab with these guys. Um,
but this is third party.
Still does not run.
Let's see if they sent me some more
stuff.
Hey, Kvert.
Welcome.
Okay, so I got the training command.
They said,
okay, it's in a custom branch.
I have to do CBC train,
If you're new around here, I do
reinforcement learning research. I
develop Puffer LIIB and I stream all the
dev.
If you're catching this having seen the
streams as of a few weeks ago,
I uh I kind of move around seasonally,
but I'm out of California for now. And I
am back at
the main facility here. I plan on being
here for at least a couple of months,
hopefully longer. It's nice here.
I'll be streaming a lot more.
Drone delivery looks cool. Convert. I'll
be very happy to merge that when I find
uh some time to do so on one of these
streams. I do have to actually get this
thing done though. Welcome, Carlos.
Guaranteed this breaks my freaking
install.
Hopefully.
I mean, if we can't even get it to run,
then I there's not much I can do. We
will see. I think we should be able to
get it to run.
So, essentially what happened is I was
told, "Hey, like, can you get us a
baseline for this?" And I went, "Sure.
And then I ran a bunch of experiments
and went, "Uh, yeah, this all gets zero
rewards. Something's wrong." And then I
got back back, oh yeah, something broke
here. Try this version. Of course, this
version though,
uh, this version
comes with the whole from source setup.
Uh, yes I can. But in this case, I have
some responsibility.
The thing is like it's not like I'm not
going to set up like I'm not willing to
set stuff up. It's just that it's it's
not supposed to be this complicated to
set up. Right.
That's the problem.
This is some weird UV thing or some like
weird and it's like the more [ __ ] like
complicated [ __ ] you put into your
project, the more chance it's just going
to screw up and like
I think it could be that this is just
like assuming that it's going to be some
file structure.
Okay.
So, then they just did something.
I guess they probably like vendored it.
It's kind of screwy, honestly.
This is actually better that they have
it this way, but
Well, got to wait for this stupid thing
to finish. Anyways,
The heck is this
segments thing doing?
so obnoxious that they have this like
this.
Working in a gym seems useful when
you're working on a rally. Exactly.
It's not just a gym though. We do have
the servers as well.
Multi-purpose.
I'm going to give it this a little bit
and if I don't make any progress, we're
just going to start on the new stuff
because like
the thing is this is a really cool
project, but literally every time I try
to do anything, it's like there's
something new that's broken with it.
That's the main issue.
So just it makes it very very difficult
for me to help them.
Yeah, this is just a a straight screw
up.
Yeah, this literally just looks like a
bad port, right?
RL Jim, if it's fast, then sure. What
are your thoughts on Dreamer before?
I haven't I I haven't read it. That
author's wasted enough of my time.
It's offline RL, so I don't necessarily
care that much anyways, and I just don't
trust the quality of work from that
author.
Which is sad because if Dreamer V3
actually worked as described, like when
I went and it's like as simple and as
robust and everything as you see on
paper, um it would obviously just be my
favorite line of work, but it's just
not.
All right. Well, I can't do anything on
this and they're not going Well,
actually, they might reply to me at 7:30
given that uh they're on San Francisco
time,
but I it's better to assume that they're
not going to reply to me. So, honestly,
this is better. We have some new people
from YouTube. Hello there. Uh, I'm going
to actually talk about the cool new
research then that I was going to plan
on starting on tomorrow after finishing
this tonight. But, uh, if it doesn't
build, I can't. Uh,
uh, well, one of them's taking a look.
I'll give him a second. Maybe he fixes
it. If not, we'll start on new research.
Let me grab a drink and I'll uh do one
of the two things.
One of them's taking a look
here. We'll build my thing in the
meantime.
Why can't I make a new tab?
Oh, cuz my terminal is freaking out.
Probably
Okay.
Home. I need
Huh? How is this not resolved?
Anybody see am I doing something really
stupid in the uh
think I'm doing something. Oh yeah, I am
doing something dumb.
Hang on.
There we go.
Let's see if we can run it now.
Is it lowercase? No, it was uh just
mounting stuff.
And it gets a formal name that makes me
mean it's important.
Not give away too much before we've uh
had the opportunity to copy at least a
couple other files in. It'll look way
cooler after all.
Delay in chat is terrible for fast
movers.
I cannot fix YouTube for you.
Looks like we got tower climb Tetris.
Press.
Hey, Kyouong.
And hello, Jacob.
Yeah, I'm back in Maryland
with even more equipment than before.
I'm pretty happy about that stuff. We
just got that in today.
Okay, I think that this will be enough
for you all to get the point at least if
I just do 3 M's worth.
I don't know if these are the best 3 M
to use, but
they should at least be enough that you
will get the point.
Yeah, car path is great. Honestly,
that original policy gradients blog, I'd
be surprised if at least some part of
what didn't factor into Costa's like
clean RL that eventually made stuff
work.
Oh, right. We have to
All right. What do we need? Grid
breakout. What do we do? Tetris.
I'm on my family's farm in a warehouse
with servers and gym equipment.
This is how we do research. Okay, so
late night preview for you all. Welcome
to Puffer Constellation.
This is my new project.
The goal is to do the largest ever
uh public analysis
or largest ever analysis of RL
experiments and trends in public.
Google will always say they have more
stuff behind closed doors, but frankly I
don't believe them.
And the goal is to understand just about
everything about how RL scales,
compute and data trade-offs to do so
across a ton of different environments
and to get a ton of insights.
So we have here
we've got compute and data trade-off.
This is uh steps or this is cost in
seconds. Coloration is steps. And we
have a few different types of insights
here in here as well. You're currently
looking at this is 3,600 experiments
worth of data filtered down to the
predto optimal results
and there will be far far more than
this.
This is something I've been working on
for uh just the last week or so. I've
been thinking about it for longer than
that, but I've been working on this for
the last week. I was uh briefly visiting
family in Connecticut
and I kind of just worked on this as I
could and this took quite a lot of time.
This is not a ton of code but it took me
a while to figure out how I wanted to do
the visualizations.
So there going to be several aspects of
this project that I'll talk about more
uh over the next coming weeks and you'll
see me working on this on stream as
well.
But really, the uh the two main parts
are going to be
getting more and more of these
experiments queued up.
And
oops, I have a reply.
Uh yeah, getting more and more of these
experiments queued up and then working
on visualizations.
I was told to pull the uh the branch
from the meta guys. So, let me go do
that real quick.
Of course, I can never get anything done
in one sitting here.
Not yet. We're not using Rayb yet. That
is going to be the plan, though.
policy green is a very intuitive
approach.
Well, it is, but there are a lot of
details to understand why that ends up
being a good choice.
I'd suggest checking my blogs. I think
my folks are here to say hi. Give me a
give me a quick second. Where the heck
is the mute button on this? I'll just do
it here. Remind me to unmute.
folks are here as well. They brought ice
cream.
I did not particularly need ice cream,
but I will take ice cream gladly.
Going to eat this and hang out and chat
and maybe fix this bug.
Does anybody have some any um burning
questions because I will be occupied
eating this for a few minutes.
So, I think that once I do that, um
either tonight we will.
If I can get this thing running, this
meta thing running,
I'll do that. They're like literally
fixing this stuff live though. So, we'll
see if they figure this out.
And
uh if they do, we'll do that. And if
not, I have stuff to do on this. I
actually have several more environments
already with experiments done.
Hey bet. Welcome
This is puffer constellation bet
is much more than the new visualizer
part of a much larger project.
I hope that this is going to end up
being the basis of puffer 40 as well.
OBS
for Mario by ray cast down and ray cast
right
too much or not enough. So the way to
think about this always for observations
is if I gave you that information could
you figure out what to do next?
there's really no RL involved in that,
right? In determining that
you either have given enough information
to solve the problem or you haven't.
You don't have to think about whether
it's enough for RL. You just have to
think about whether it's enough in
general.
Um, that's only part of it. Bet.
That's only part of it.
There will be more to do here once um
I got unexpected dessert delivery.
move until it won't learn. Well, if you
want to go that route, if you want it to
be minimal for some reason, then like
you just plot your curve,
zero out an observation, plot the curve,
zero out an observation.
It's not really cheating when you're
giving it access to state information.
When you start feature engineering stuff
then Now
Okay, it looks like they're going to
take a while to port it.
I can't even tell you how long it took
me to figure out that this was the way
to plot it as well.
Like you go, "Oh, that's so obvious. All
you did was make a 3D scatter." Yeah,
okay. It's scatter after a paro filter.
Sure. But like
nine out of ten times when you think you
need a 3D plot, you should not be making
a 3D plot.
I only made this 3D plot because I truly
exhausted all the 2D options.
And the only reason I even think that
this is a good idea
is cuz I pair it with this 2D plot.
This is a really good 2D plot, right? It
needs a legend,
but
you basically get to see, okay, more
cost equals more score up to a point.
And then you get to see more steps,
right? More steps with the colorations.
Wait, who's ever thinking I need 3D? Are
you joking, B?
It's like the most e obvious thing ever
when you have three variables.
Yes. Like the thing is it's the most
obvious thing ever is to do a 3D plot,
but 3D plots on 2D screens are hard to
understand. So, like
it's way better to cheat the third
dimension into this like 2D plot if you
can.
Well, this is hard to read because
you're not like you can't see around it,
right? Look. But if I go like this, if I
start moving it,
you see how there's
these sort of three separate layers for
the different M's that scale differently
with steps and cost. And you kind of
have this these different trade-off
surfaces
as well. Cost steps
Yeah, exactly. Convert. But in this
case, it's true 3D.
this is the best plot you can make for
one environment. This gives you cost
score trade-off. But when you have
multiple environments, you can't stack
all that on the same chart. You have to
do this.
Shouldn't that be super easy? Actually,
are there not resin printers by now?
This would be incredibly hard to do by
hand. I bet
if you wanted to have this exact plot in
resin,
I'd be very happy to have if I have the
final version of this in resin. That'd
be awesome.
Just like here, this object is a
representation of the largest RL setup
experiment.
Be awesome.
okay, first thing is we're going to go
get all of the other plots.
Uh, we're going to go get all the other
plots.
Why is this one
I forget that I have this terminal issue
where um
for whatever my terminal doesn't like to
have
there we go. Let's do this.
[Music]
Basic bash script.
these things have commas. Oh, lovely.
Bashist don't have commas.
Why not?
That would make too much sense.
Okay,
I need
Why is there no snakejson?
Probably because I need to do
Okay.
So,
this might not be the best format, but
we're going to start with this for now.
Um,
We'll come up with a better way to fully
like automate this
uh probably tomorrow.
But for now, I want to get these results
like showing up on the screen.
There we go. So, this is six
environments.
I believe there are a couple more on the
other server.
Ooh, did I crash the other server? I
believe I did.
H
Well, since that's the second time in a
row, I can guarantee you that was uh me
out of memorying the machine.
I think there was at least like one
other good environment on there though,
wasn't there?
Let me go reboot that box behind me real
quick.
There you can watch how difficult it is
for me to just walk across a room and
press a button. A lot easier than when I
crash it when I'm in California.
Oh my, that's a good chunk of new folks
on YouTube. Welcome.
If you're new around here, hi, I'm
Joseph.
I do a bunch of crazy research in RL. I
stream all of it. It's all free and open
source.
Many of the people around here have
gotten involved in the field through
this stuff as well.
Uh, this is a server mobile takes
forever to boot, but
yeah, in a few minutes that machine will
be back on.
Interesting that Snake
Did Snake just not find anything decent?
Is that what I'm seeing here?
Well, we have this chart for this,
right?
Uh, Snake found plenty decent. What the
hell?
So, I guess that PF metric is just
messed up.
Why is nonblocking true?
commented out in puffer forl where
I I
there were a couple couple screwy things
I remember with non-blocking. You're
free to try it.
I think what's going to happen is
instead of using Perf, we're probably
going to have to use like some normed or
thing.
actually this uh this 2048 environment
is very good. Do you see this?
Look at the scaling. You see how the
2048 environment actually shows like
this really nice scaling behavior
with um
increased steps.
That's like a perfect log linear chart.
It's very nice.
Um, you know what? I actually don't
remember what I was testing with that. I
don't remember if that like uh I
actually don't remember what I was
testing with that. It's possible that
that is like a major screw up.
Now, we do give uh contributors access
to some of the machines behind me once
you've made uh some cool M's.
So, there is more computer around, at
least a little bit of it.
I've actually got to go find a minute to
plug uh Hufferbox 6 back in for Bat.
He's going to be so happy to get his
machine back.
Oh, we have grid.
Yeah, we have grid.
And why not? Let's let's do mobile while
we're here because even though it's not
fully done, right?
Corrupting puffer with sloppia.
And if you if you're um a relatively
newer dev, like first few years of dev,
um check my programming guide.
I generally advise people not,
at least if you want my advice, right?
Um I generally don't advise doing
co-authoring stuff with LLMs like that.
You'll notice I it's not like I don't
use any AI tooling, but I just I use
much lighter weight stuff for the most
part that like where I retain a lot more
control.
But basically with Super Maven, right,
typing is just no longer a bottleneck,
but it doesn't think for me, which is
nice. That's about what I like.
Super Maven.
Yeah, that's what I recommend.
Super whisper. So, super maven is do you
see like when I'm typing?
Oh, I guess not in this one. Hang on.
So, if I go here,
so when I'm typing, I get this tab
complete. But you see it's like it's
basically instant, right? Like there's
very little delay on it. It's not a very
smart model, but it's very fast. It just
basically lets you do single line
autocomplete very fast.
Um, but it's really not going to do much
thinking for you. That for me is a
really really great tool. I can program
without it just fine. It just kind of
feels slow, you know, and it's like kind
of annoying to have to remember the
precise names of everything.
It's different though, right? Like if
you're going to compare that to like a
heavier co-pilot or cursor or stuff,
right? It's instant completions but much
much stupider
and that's what I like
and that's generally what I recommend
people use if you must do uh if you
really want to use AI something or
other. That's like a nice upgrade.
And the cool thing about that as well is
it doesn't feel like, oh, I don't know
how to program if I stop using it for a
bit. It just feels like, you know, I got
to remember the names of like, oh, what
did I name that variable? What did I
name that other variable? Like,
it's like a very natural thing, you
know?
Right. I needed to put grid and moa.
And this will be the first time I've
seen the plot myself with this many M's.
used to get better at programming.
So you can
The thing is
LM are really bad programmers.
Like they just write shitty code. It's
gotten a little better, some of it, but
they just generally just they write such
bad code in so many cases.
This is pretty cool.
Dense.
So to give you an idea right actually
breakout and pong have a ton of
experiments data on them but let's just
assume we have the normal amount 1 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 environments
8,000 plus 16 so this is 9600 envir uh
9600 experiments worth of data
already
9600 experiments
and we've got all these aggregate plots
you can like do any metric tricks you
like.
I guess MOA is a little less. It's
probably like 85 or 8,600 because MOA
had uh some crashes.
Okay. So, what's next? Um,
we have to fix a few individual
environments, I think.
So, we can get full sweeps.
Yeah, we have to fix a few individual
environments so we can get full sweeps.
Assuming I want to have this Perf
metric, right?
I mean, I think this perf metric does
make sense, right?
To have is like a rough
tap.
Do we know the max score of uh Pac-Man
here? I wonder if it's It should be the
same as the original, but I'm not sure.
It's one
per dot.
Was it just one per dot that you eat?
Yeah, it's literally just one per dot
that you eat in this
You people stop messing with my
versioning
every bloody time they mess with it.
Reinstall
Let's see how high this gets. I think
it's going to be 240 as max.
It's kind of good though that this is
like
Yeah, this is like a relatively slow
optim here. This could be a nice end.
loots nicely. Yes.
Okay. So, I'm going to assume it's 240.
Oh, you know what? I bet I know what it
is.
This doesn't need a binding.
This goes in vet
So you just need to give it the pointer
to this, right?
Oh, what's the unccast on this? Hey,
Weston. Welcome.
a really annoying thing to have to do
just for this one thing. But I mean,
this is the evil of Python
is that the uh
the CAPI is just kind of disgusting,
right?
Ah, okay. So, it is unpacked. So it's
args a zero.
It's like this, right?
It's like something like this. Yeah.
Yeah, I'm going to have to find
something better longer term because
this is just evil.
That actually is probably decent
autocomplete for once. Let me see.
Yeah, you get the state.
I think it changes this
the buffer.
Oh,
cuz
We go.
Yeah, this is a super janky system.
Honestly, feels better just writing pure
C, not this like pseudo Python C mix
crap.
or this like pythonized. It's kind of
more pythonized. See,
now this is running. The uh the other
thing I've been working on lately
We've got all this stuff going on for
Puffer.
There's the new training block.
The summer training back block was a
psychotic cut.
Um, this one is a slow bulk and a bunch
of flexibility work.
The goal is for throughout the week I am
running an hour first thing in the
morning. While I'm working, I'm getting
about an hour of lifting in throughout
the day. And then before I go to bed, I
get an hour of like very intentional
stretching in
I'm getting 3 hours of exercise a day,
more or less.
third close return null
without setting an exceptionally Okay.
How did it return null without setting
an error?
Let's just let this thing put some
prints
How much sleep do I get?
I try to get eight or nine hours.
I definitely need at least eight.
There have literally been training
blocks in which I need 10 hours of
sleep.
I mean, that's like
that was like doing two to three hours
of running a day, though.
Yeah. The point of this like whole
crazy setup and all the research you're
going to see here for the next month is
not that I'm working myself to the bone,
right?
it's that it's just very scheduled
um where things are like, you know, very
consistent and not a ton of wasted time.
Game map handle game map and then it
crashes.
Oh, is it supposed to be PI object?
Yeah, it is
Oh, that's so stupid.
Python is so dumb.
This ought to work though.
If this works, then this will have not
been bad for 20 minutes of work.
Okay, I'm done in a few. So, the goal is
to just launch these experiments
and then I call a night.
Yay! It works. At least we think it
does.
And then hopefully we wake up to Moa
sweeps as well as uh Pac-Man sweeps.
Get out of here, bot.
Okay,
there we go.
Not bad.
Not bad at all.
Okay, so the idea here, right, is we
have 12 GPUs on two different machines.
Each different machine does one
environment. Each GPU does a sweep, 200
experiments per sweep, 1,200 experiments
per environment, 24,00 experiments
total. And these will be finished uh by
sometime tomorrow,
provided they do not crash or otherwise
screw up.
Now, I could wait to make sure that
these actually get started correctly,
but it's about 9 and that means it is
uh time for me to be done for the day.
I will give you a uh a quick peek though
at this.
I'll give you the quick preview of this
which I'll probably post tomorrow. These
are V1 so they are 6x490 instead of 4x
5090.
I'm going to call it for a night.
Actually, Kvert, do you have like
literally 30 seconds to chat on Discord
after this?
And for the rest of folks, I'm calling
it a night. I will be back tomorrow
morning, probably around 10:30ish
Eastern, unless anything else uh pops
up. And the goal is going to be to be
streaming a ton a ton of research over
the uh the next several weeks. So,
thanks for tuning in. If you want to
support my work for free, check out
puffer.ai. It's all open source. Start
the repo. Join the Discord if you want
to get